concept: benchmarking: initial benchmarking index (#75)
micro-ROS/micro-ROS.github.io: _docs/concepts/benchmarking/index.md

permalink: /docs/concepts/benchmarking/
---

Table of contents

- [Our benchmarking tool framework](#our-benchmarking-tool-framework)
- [Binary generation for instrumented code](#binary-generation-for-instrumented-code)
- [TFA - Trace Framework Abstraction](#tfa-trace-framework-abstraction)
- [Shadow Builder](#shadow-builder)
- [Binary generation for instrumented code](#binary-generation-for-instrumented-code)
- [Step to start Benchmarking](#step-to-start-bencharking)

Developing working and stable application from the scribbles to the final
executing binary is long and hard tasks. During this process developers may come

> across stabilities issues, perfomances issues. In addition to these issues, some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
across stability issues, performance issues. In addition to these issues, some
```

> specified QoS might be difficul to quantify.  Solving those problems without the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specified QoS might be difficult to quantify.  Solving those problems without the
```

> proper tools might be a frustrating , tedious tasks leading to reduce developers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proper tools might be frustrating , tedious tasks leading to reduce developers
```

efficiency. An adapted benchmarking tool could overcome all those development
obstacles and increase development time.  There are different KPI (Keep
Performance Indicators) that one might be interested into. In the framework of
this micro-ROS, the KPI can be freely chosen by the developer. In this way, the
benchmarking tool will remain flexible and allow the community to constantly add
some support for a lot of different KPI.

The problems we want to tackle are: 

>  * Out there, many benchmarking tools exists. Each of targeting different KPIs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Out there, many benchmarking tools exist. Each of targeting different KPIs. 
```

 * Different platforms (Linux/Nuttx/Baremetal et.c.).
 * Too few time/resources to code benchmarking tool for each.
 * Avoid code overhead: Keep code clarity.
 * Avoid execution overhead: Do not want to make execution slower when benchmarking.

## Our Benchmarking tool framework

The benchmarking tool under development is providing a framework to allow
developers to create their own benchmarking tool. Each part a developer wants to
benchmark can be added as a plugin using the provided framework. In this way

> plugins can be shared and this improve re-usability as much as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
plugins can be shared and this improves re-usability as much as possible.
```

## Binary generation for instrumented code 

The binary generation is the process of compiling the source code. In order to
benchmark, previously to compile the source code, it is necessary to instrument

> the code. The code will instrumented in a transparent way for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the code. The code will be instrumented in a transparent way for the
```

programmer/user. Therefore, a configuration file provided by the programmer will

> be parsed and code inject as described in a configuration file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be parsed and code injected as described in a configuration file. 
```

### Step 1 - Binary Generation : Receiving inputs

The binary generation's pipeline receives two inputs to work with:
 * Configuration Benchmarking file.
 * Source code to benchmark.

In short, the configuration describes:

>  * What is bench-marked (sources).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * What is benchmarked (sources).
```

 * Where to benchmark.
 * What type of benchmark.
 * Optionally against what base line to compare (base line source)

### Step 2 - Binary Generation: Parse & Check

Once the input received the **Shadow Builder** parses the configuration
file. From the configuration file, the Shadow builder gets:

 * The different benchmarking to be achieved.
 * The targeted platforms.

In addition to parsing, the Shadow Builder is in charge of checking
capabilities and consistency within the configuration file and the different
TFA's plugins registered in the TFA module.

### Step 3 - Binary Generation: TFA Execution

> Once parsed and check against the TFA module capabilities, the Shadow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once parsed and checked against the TFA module capabilities, the Shadow
```

Builder will be in charge of translating configuration into source code. The

> translated sources will be achieved also in cooperation with the TFA module. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
translated sources will also be achieved in cooperation with the TFA module. The
```

detailed steps of the TFA can be found here. At the end of this step, the TFA
will generate the new forged source code ready for compilation. In addition to

> patched source code, the TFA will generate scripts that will the benchmarks.

Reviewer: > the TFA will generate scripts that wil...

include?
provide?

Author: that can be used to launch benchmarks.

### Step 4 - Binary Generation: Compilation

> The compilation will happen for every kind of benchmarkings and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compilation will happen for every kind of benchmarks and
```

platforms targeted. Depending on the kind of benchmark that is being executed,
there will be one or more binaries per benchmarks session. The number of binary
generated also depends on what plugins are provided by the user to the shadow
builder. The shadow builder will retrieve capabilities of the plugins and
request from the developer, match them and generated software according to the
matches.

## TFA - Trace Framework Abstraction

The Shadow builder alone only parse comments from the application and pass it
along to the Trace Framework Abstraction (TFA) Core. The TFA core is aware of
the plugins that are available, all the plugins’ capabilities and platform

> target. The process goes a explained below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
target. The process goes as explained below: 
```

 * The line containing the functionality Benchmarking::XX::YY will be checked
   against all the available plugins.

>  * Plugin that are capable to handle functionality will respond with a piece of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Plugin that is capable of handling functionality will respond with a piece of
```

   code that will be replaced with a piece of code.
 * Then the output file will be added in a folder corresponding to the platform
   type and benchmarking type.

Being generic is the key for this benchmarking tool. The plugins will in
contrary bring the specific implementation needed to benchmark  a specific

> platform. Every plugins will to provide information as  requested by the parser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
platform. Every plugin will provide information as  requested by the parser:
```

>  * Provide list of supported platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Provide a list of the supported platform. 
```

 * Provide a list of functions that are handled.
 * Provide snippets codes that will be added for benchmarking.

>  * Provide list of patches and/or patch code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Provide a list of patches and/or patch code
```

>  * Optional provide an end script to run andi execute the benchmarks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Optional provide an end script to run and execute the benchmarks
```

## SB - Shadow Builder

This section will introduce some concept related to the shadow builder (SB).

The Shadow builder is a tool that will transparently instrument the code to
benchmark. The tools will be able to output an “instrumented code” that will be
later be compiled as a normal code. The following steps describe what the shadow
builder process flow:

>  * Get configuration file from user (Benchmarking Configuration File).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Get configuration file from the user (Benchmarking Configuration File).
```

 * Get appropriate sources.
 * Execute Trace Framework Abstraction Configuration file.
 * Parse the sources file needed Injecting code.
 * Compile the targeted binary for different platform.
 * If needed, depending what type benchmark is undertaken, compile another
   target binary benchmarking.

The SB (Shadow Builder) is meant to be as transparent as possible for the user.
And if the benchmarking is not activated, it should be bypassed.  Get

> appropriate sources

Reviewer: It looks like this is some text not meant to be here.

The SB is in charge of getting the path/git repository to the source code that
needs to be benchmarking. The benchmarking. The sources are specified by the
user in the benchmarking configuration file.  Injecting code

> In order to inject code, there are some tool that allow this. CLang AST tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to inject code, there are some tools that allow this. CLang AST tool
```

will allow to inject some code. 

## Step to start Benchmarking

The shadow Builder will be executed as follow:

 * Software sources are passed to the Shadow Builder.

>  * The source are passed and upon comments containing /*Benchmarking::XX::YY*/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The source is parsed and upon comments containing /*Benchmarking::XX::YY*/
```
